# Formalizing Network Flow Algorithms

We present a formalization of classical algorithms for computing the maximum flow in a network:
The Edmonds-Karp algorithm and the push-relabel algorithm. 
We prove correctness and time complexity of these algorithms.
Our formal proof closely follows a standard textbook proof, and is accessible even without being
an expert in Isabelle/HOL --- the interactive theorem prover used for the formalization.

Using stepwise refinement techniques, we instantiate the generic Ford-Fulkerson algorithm to Edmonds-Karp algorithm, 
and the generic push-relabel algorithm of Goldberg and Tarjan to both the relabel-to-front and the FIFO push-relabel algorithm.
Further refinement then yields verified efficient implementations of the algorithms, which compare well to unverified reference implementations.

## Source Files

  * [maxflow.tgz](maxflow.tgz) All sources and benchmark scripts

## Proof Documents
  Here are the proof documents that are automatically generated by Isabelle. They can be used to get a quick impression of the proof without 
  loading the theories into Isabelle/HOL. The outline documents only contain the definitions and lemmas, the full documents also contain the proofs.
 
  * Network flow library [Outline](fnet_outline.pdf) [Full Document](fnet_document.pdf)
  * Edmonds-Karp Algorithm [Outline](edka_outline.pdf) [Full Document](edka_document.pdf)
  * Push-Relabel Algorithms [Outline](prpu_outline.pdf) [Full Document](prpu_document.pdf)

